# SERG: Shifting Euclidean Rhythm Generator

SERG is a music composition tool inspired by Steve Reichs concept of phase shifting rhythms.

## Introduction

### What are Phase Shifting Rhythms

Phase Shifting Rhythms is the name we have given to a technique that Steve Reich used across his discography.

To explain the concept we will take his piece “Clapping Music for Two Performers” as an example:
* The piece starts with both performers clapping a 1 bar rhythm in unison, repeated 12 times.
* On bar 13 the 1st player continues the rhythm as normal. However, the 2nd player claps a rhythm that is the original rhythm circular shifted by one pulse. Again this is repeated for 12 bars.
* This process of circular shifting is repeated until the 2nd player's rhythm has been shifted back to it's original position.

This simple principle is amazing at producing some very unique feeling rhythmic pieces as the two rhythms go in and out of phase. There is a push-pull effect felt as syncopation is intermittently introduced.
It is this concept of shifting a rhythm over time that our project is based on.

### What are Euclidean Rhythms

Description of Euclidean Rhythms, introduce onsets and pulses

### SERG's Design

SERG has two sets of phase shifting rhythms that are played in sync.

Set 1 consisting of Track 1 and Track 2, and Set 2 consisting of Track 3 and Track 4.

The base rhythm for each set is generated by a euclidean rhythm.

Blah blah blah

## Technical Description

### Technologies Used

### Project Structure

### Flowchart


### GUI

Overview of GUI.js
Outline key and interesting functions

### Browser Play

Overview of BrowserPlay.js
Outline key and interesting functions

### Midi Generation

The generation of the midi object is handled by the javascript file midiGeneration. The process is divided  among several functions, with the function generateMidi handling the overall flow.

#### euclideanPattern(onsets, pulses)

The first step in building the MIDI object for the piece is to create the base Euclidean Rhythm. This is handled by the function euclideanPattern. The function has two input arguments, onsets and pulses. The function returns a string with a binary representation of the Euclidean Rhythm. For example with inputs onsets = 5 and pulses = 8, the function would return “10110110”, with a 1 representing an onset and a 0 a pulse without an onset.
The generation of Euclidean Rhythm was designed from the description in Godfried T. Toussaint’s book The Geometry of Musical Rhythm, chapter 19 “Euclidean Rhythms”.
The algorithm was designed from scratch using the method he described. The figure below is taken from The Geometry of Musical Rhythm and shows a visual representation of the algorithm with 5 onsets and 8 pulses.

####

## Challenges

### Challenge 1

give description of challenge, solutions tried and final solution

## Future Work

Things we would like to improve on or change



